So it is, um, it's a good morning.
I'm super pumped about this morning.
I'm in the word that God has for us.
We're going to be in Exodus 17 today.
Um, we have spent just the last say
last week and this week in Exodus
16, and then this weekend next to 17.
Um, God had just given me some,
some messages within my quiet time.
And that's what I always tell people.
The best messages that we have is in our
daily quiet time, because God speaks to us
and then we get to share that with others.
And so, um, out of that, we
got to deal with last week.
Um, just this idea of what happens
when we forget to remember.
Um, and so we just learned, right.
We complain and grumble.
And we question God, and we begin to try
to take things back into our own control.
But when that happens, we actually
end up missing out on experiencing
the joy of God's blessings.
Um, and so how does that
really apply to today?
Um, what we actually,
interestingly enough, I want to
kind of catch you up on this.
If you didn't read this after
we got done, seeing what.
When you forget to remember.
Cause again, if you remember, the
people of Israel had seen God do
some miraculous things, right.
Part waters, destroy their enemy
or save them, you know, from that.
Um, and what did they do after they forgot
to remember and God provided for them.
They forgot again.
They begin to complain and grumble
and really all the way up to
what we're going to read today.
Um, in verse eight of chapter 17, uh,
they had just got done complaining again.
Um, but this is where we're going to kind
of see this, like, Hey, what happened?
Um, and we're going to see where
God shows us today that we are.
Together we are better together.
And I think most of you would
probably agree with that
sentiment for the most part.
Um, so let me start off
by asking this question.
I love asking questions at the beginning.
How many of y'all?
Yes, I'm still saying y'all, um,
have ever held something above your
head for any extended period of time.
Okay.
Keep holding your hands up.
Keep holding your hand.
Okay.
Now everybody has a F.
So if you've done that, what are
some things you've held above?
Rifle a fan.
Okay.
What else?
Big stick.
Okay.
Sounds like you're Moses over here.
We're getting ready to talk about
Moses holding a big stick out.
That's good.
So if anybody's like me you've
you probably have helped somebody
hold some sheet, rock up now
doing sheet rock on a wall.
Simple.
Like let's just hold.
But the moment you start doing sheet rock
up here, you realize how strong you are.
It's right.
Difficult to hold your hands up.
Um, and so we realized that when it
comes to, I'm just trying to think
about holding up sheet rock and
putting that in, in the ceiling, um,
that it takes more than one person.
Right?
And I started thinking about this
every one of us each day, um, in
our lives and our jobs, you know,
maybe it's our family members.
We are dependent upon them fulfilling.
Whatever it is that they
have to do with you.
So I think about this with my wife
is if she tried to raise our kids,
take care of everything at our house
on her own, it would be difficult.
So it's this idea where whenever
I participate in whatever the
kids actually now they're at the
age, they can start doing things.
We realized that it's easier
to accomplish the task at hand.
We're better together.
So as we jump into the story,
we're really going to be seeing the
idea how we are better together.
Um, and how that we can work
together to fill up the mission
that God's called us to.
And so just as a church, um, if you don't
know, as a church, what do we exist to do?
What is our mission as a church?
Well, we believe our mission is
to inspire hope by helping people
discover God's purpose for.
Through a relationship with Jesus.
We really believe every single
person that's in this room.
That's in our city, that's in the
world, has a divine purpose from God.
Number one, have a relationship with him.
And number two, to fulfill
the call in life, right?
The call I've learned a call is an
invitation to be a part of God's work.
And as we discover that purpose for
other people, as we help them discover
that we start to see God's mission.
And so it's a cool how we're going to
see this really kind of intertwined
with the story of Moses and Aaron and
her and Joshua and the army and God
overseeing this battle that they go into.
Um, and so my hope is, as you think
through, and maybe even rate yourself
this, I want you to think through this
right now, even if you're not a part
of inspiring hope, I still believe
you can be a part of God's mission.
I want you to just think how.
Effective am I being, helping other
people discover God's purpose for their
life through relationship with Jesus?
How am I being effective and
helping God accomplish the
mission, which he's called me to.
And just think about that.
And as you think about that, if that's
anything other than what I would say
is excelling where you are striving
for that, then I hope today you'll,
you'll be empowered by the word of God.
Um, and by just encouragement
in this message to go be a
part of that, to stop living.
What I would say is a second rate,
life start living a first rate
life that God's called you to in
this, um, in this life that we have
been called to go serve the Lord.
Right.
And so let's, let's jump into this
text again, exit, uh, 17, uh, starting
in verse eight, it says this at, uh,
and I don't know how to say this word.
So Rephidim amulet came and fought against
Israel and Moses said to Joshua select
some men for us and go fight against.
And tomorrow I will stand on the
hill with God's staff in my hand.
And Joshua did, as Moses had told
him and fought against amylin
while Moses and Aaron and Hur
went up on the top of the hill.
And while Moses held his head.
I held his hand up his real prevailed,
but whenever he put his hands
down and Molech prevailed and when
Moses his hands grew heavy, they
took a stone and put it under him.
And as they sat down on it or as he
sat down on it and then Aaron and her
support his hands, a one on one side
and one on the other so that his hands
remained steady until the sun went down.
And so Joshua defeated
amyloid and his armies.
And then the Lord said to Moses,
write down on the scroll as a
reminder and recite it to Joshua.
I will completely block out the memory
of MLS under the heavens and Moses
built an altar altar and named it.
The Lord is my banner and he, and he said,
indeed, my hand is lifted up towards the
Lord's throne and the Lord will be at war
with AMAC, from generation to generation.
So let's pray, Lord Jesus.
We just thank you Lord for today.
And we thank you for this opportunity
to open your word and Lord, I
pray that you speak through it.
And Lord that we learn from those
who have gone before us and their
faithfulness to serve Lord in the way
in which you called them to serve.
And so Lord, we just pray
this in your heavenly name.
Amen.
So the first thing we need to
recognize as we commit to fulfilling
the mission that God has called us
as to recognize we have an enemy.
If you'll look there in verse
eight, we begin to see that Moses.
Identifies that they have an enemy, right?
It's amyloid.
They came to fight against
Israel, God's people.
So each one of us, as we go to
fulfill the mission, we have to
know that we will have an enemy.
And if we don't identify that enemy, if
we don't understand the things that are
working against us as the enemy, we can
get confused and we can get set back
in the call that God's called us to.
And I start thinking through what are the
things that start stress, setting us back.
Many of us think the enemy.
It's just this guy, who's
going to be very noticeable.
Right?
It's going to be like, we talk about the,
the devil with the red man suit the fork.
Like it's simple to see, see that
the enemy is working against us, but
I began to realize that really the
enemy works against us through things
like stress divisions and marriage,
our kids not acting the way they
need to a loss of a job, a financial
issue, something in our life that is
distracting us from the mission of God
is really the enemy working against us.
And so if we know we have.
We also know that we need to
prepare ourselves for that.
Right.
And if we are a part of what I would
say, if you guys remember as a kid, the
Lord's army, that means we're soldiers.
I'd like to call us
warriors, um, with this.
So let me ask this question.
I want to get you guys
engaged in this thought.
If you're a warrior, if you're
a soldier, what do you need to
do before you go into battle?
Somebody give you some ideas.
What do you need to do
before you go into battle?
If you're a warrior or a soldier prepare,
what'd you say, put on your armor.
Practice.
What else?
Exercise.
What'd you say?
Training.
Okay, good.
Yes.
Don't go out alone.
Okay.
So, so all those things are
obviously exactly what we're saying.
We're preparing, right.
So how do we prepare one?
We need to know about.
We need to know our enemy.
Number two, we need to train and
prepare for the battle at hand.
Right.
That's logical.
And so here, just to, just to kind
of give you some brief again, God's
word tells us who our enemy is.
Right.
Um, and so one of the things I do
know is I started reading about this
as the enemy tries to still kill
and destroy anything that basically.
Causes our faith to waiver.
He tries to destroy our faith in
God and our confidence in God.
So anything in our life, right.
That distracts us from the
call of God, has this put on
us is what the enemy will use.
Right.
He's using those things to distract us.
And so we identified that we have
an enemy, he begins to attack us and
those ways, so we identified the enemy.
Right.
And then we prepare.
So let me ask this, let's
be a little bit practical.
How can we prepare for them?
And let's get in detail.
How do we prepare to go into.
How do you prepare?
Maybe you do go into battle every day.
How do you prepare
being the word?
Okay.
What's the word going to
teach us about the enemy?
Good.
So what else, what else are you gonna do?
Prey.
So when we pray, it's, we're actually
dependent upon the Lord, right?
That's the moment where we
start taking the control out
of our hands to win the battle.
And we put it in here.
So that's another good one.
What's a, what's one more.
We invite others to join in.
We can't win the battle alone.
We are better together.
So we see that in this text where Moses
says, Hey, Joshua, go get an army.
He didn't say, Hey,
Josh, we'll go do this.
He said, go get an army.
We're better together.
Go prepare to go to feat this.
And I love that idea behind right time.
And God's word teaches us
to learn about our enemy.
But time in the word also gives us
confidence that God will go before us
with us and use us despite maybe our
weaknesses prayer again, will shore
dependence upon him, but working with
others to design a plan of attack,
God has designed us to work together.
And I started thinking about this.
So I'm thinking of stories, right?
Some of us may think, Hey,
well I want to get David.
And maybe, you know, that's who
you are as a David is going to go
out and you're going to defeat the
one person that is stopping the
people from winning the battle.
Well, I started thinking about this.
If the people wouldn't have got
confidence from that one, David and
ran to go to feed the rest of the
enemy, David still wouldn't have won.
He may have won the battle,
but he'd not a won the war.
So yes, we need to have
confidence in going into battle,
but we need to bring others.
We need to bring others with us in this.
So we need to know again, we need to
recognize that we have an enemy, right.
That is trying to go against us.
But I started thinking through this, let's
look at these different characters and how
they begin to be a part of fulfilling the
mission that God called them to do right.
To defeat this enemy.
And I hope that as we begin to look at
these people in this text, we'll begin to
see maybe ways in which we can represent,
uh, or we can re like we can relate.
To go into the battle to fill the
mission that God's called us to do.
So the first one we see here is Joshua
and the army in verses nine and 10.
So I'm gonna read those again.
It's this Moses said to Joshua select some
men for us to go fight against amyloid.
And tomorrow I was saying on the hill
with John or with God staff in my hand,
and Joshua did just, as Moses had told
him and fought against ambulant while
Moses and Aaron and Hur went up on top of.
See, I'm going to kind of break
down a couple of these characters.
Joshua, if you don't know who
Joshua is, Joshua was really
just an assistant to Moses.
Um, if you know, a little bit more of the
story of, um, just the people of Israel
coming out of the land of Egypt, um, they
went to the promised land and they sent
12 people to go into the promised land,
to scout it out, to see if the land was
full of milk and honey, and to see the
enemy in which they were going to go into.
And there was two people
came back with a good report.
Does he remember those two?
Joshua is one of them.
Who's the other one, Caleb, see these two
guys had faith that God could defeat the
enemy that was large and obviously many.
Um, and so we see that one, Joshua
was, was a part of that, right?
The other was eventually Joshua
would succeed Moses to lead.
The people actually entered the
promised land after the 40 years
of wandering in the wilderness.
Right.
And so we also see that he
is a leader of the armies as.
And so we, we also see this army, right?
And there's not much detail, but it
says that Joshua selected men, right.
That he chose that he knew that
he understood that they were
committed to fulfilling the mission.
Um, and as we continue to look at this,
I ever wonder, um, as Joshua was used
by God, and as these people that I just
started thinking through this as, as
Josh was choosing these people to go into
battle with him, Did you ever think if, if
Joshua came to you, if you were there in
that day and Joshua came to you and said,
Hey, come be a part of fulfilling the
mission that God's called us to fulfill.
Would you kind of doubt whether you
could actually fulfill that mission?
Anybody ever doubt whether God can
use you, anybody would ever doubt
whether, you know, I'm not good enough.
I don't know enough.
I'm not gifted enough.
I've been in.
I've been there.
I remember whenever I surrendered
to ministry, I'm almost
like eight, nine years ago.
And I was so passionate about a
surrendered ministry and high everything's
going to be easy from here on out.
And it wasn't.
And I started to think, okay,
well, what did I start doing?
I started taking steps of faith.
I remember that next week I invited a
group of students that I was serving.
Um, just as an adult leader,
there a group invited a group of
students to go and hand out flyers.
You know, how many showed up?
We had a sit ministry of 60 and we
went out to hand out flyers and it
really didn't go very well, but I
was committed to be a part of what
God was doing to fulfill the mission.
And so a couple of weeks later, I was
invited to teach a student ministry
thing, which I'd never taught before.
And I taught the message in seven
minutes and it was horrible.
So I retaught it again,
went 10 minutes long.
Um, but I was committed in the mission.
Right.
And then later I actually preached on
a Sunday morning, which was even worse.
But I was committed to the mission.
And I remember over and over again,
wondering God, can you use me?
I mean, come on, like, this is bad.
And he's like, yeah, but I'm good.
And so when I realized this
as is, is it, it takes faith.
It takes faith for each one of us.
I think you guys probably
relate a lot with me.
Can God use me?
Do I know one.
Am I capable.
And I think I wonder that happened with
Joshua and asking those to come with them.
Right.
Here's what I've learned in my many
years of just being faithful with
the Lord is that over and over again,
God uses those who are faithful and
willing who are faithful and willing.
So I started picturing this.
Joshua was going throughout the camp
and he's saying, I need people to
go with me to fight this battle.
And there were some that said, I'll go.
And there were some that said.
And everybody has a choice to be a
part of fulfilling God's mission, but
we have to be faithful and willing.
And here's what I started.
I started thinking back Hebrews 11 six is
one of my favorite verses in the Bible.
It says without faith, we cannot
please God, without faith.
It is impossible to please.
God, I got a question I
want to step out here.
How many of y'all want to please?
God, praise God.
This is great.
Because that's the first step
to take the next step, because
if you want to please God.
And if you want to please God,
and if you want to please,
God, it's going to take faith.
It's going to take faith and it's
going to take taking that next step,
even though at times, you wonder,
am I even gonna be able to do this?
It can God really.
And the truth is he will
write, he requires you to bring
nothing to the table, but faith.
That's what I love about God, God,
doesn't say, Hey, bring everything
you got, which means this.
You need to figure out that have
you had four years of college or you
need to have six years of seminary
or you need to be saved for 12 years.
He doesn't say any of that.
Here's what he says.
If you'll have faith in
me, I will do the rest.
All you have to do is go.
And I love that about God.
He provides the ability and
power to accomplish the task.
If we will just have faith.
So where do we start?
If we want to be part of God's big plan.
I want to ask that question.
Where do we start?
When we want to be a part of God's
big plan to fulfill the mission?
Where do we start?
Surrender starts with a relationship.
I think too many times guys, as
we, we want to be good people.
We want to do good things.
And so we start doing good things and
that may be a good start, but if it's done
with a wrong heart, we missed the point
of God's ultimate plan for the mission.
If we don't surrender to Jesus, if
we don't have a relationship with him
personally, the feeling the mission
will never happen because we'll be
going out on our own power and our own
attempt, and it will never be fulfilling
and it will never, never fulfill the
call that God has on your life to
fulfill the call that God has when
your life starts with a relationship.
I talk about that every week,
because guys, sometimes we miss that.
We want to be doers, but we don't want to
be beers, which means this be with Jesus.
And I would say this, if we
don't spend time with Jesus,
we don't know who our enemy is.
If we don't spend time with Jesus,
we don't know how he's equipping us.
And then he goes before us, if we
aren't with Jesus every day, we aren't
inviting other people to join us.
So that is where we have to start
heard this statement yesterday.
I just think it was Friday.
Whenever I was thinking about this, it
was this guy, he was talking about a
son and he, and he's playing baseball
and he says, my son doesn't like
losing, but he doesn't know how to win.
I'm going to say this again.
My son doesn't like losing, but
he doesn't know how to win because
I want to step out there again.
And when I say step out there is,
I want to challenge you to do this.
I've been there.
I want to be a part of God's plan.
I don't want to keep sitting where I'm
sitting, staying, where I'm staying, not
following God the way he wants me to.
I don't want to be there because it is not
a good place, but I don't know how to win.
I don't know how to take a next step.
I'm struggling with that.
And many of you may be in that same place.
Many other believers may be in that
same place, that many people who don't
know Jesus, if you don't know Jesus,
if you've never given your life to
him, you may be at the same place.
So how do we overcome that?
Well, I love how Joshua
answers this force.
Right?
You're wondering am I
actually preaching the word?
I would love to say the answer's.
Yes.
And that's why I want
to go back to the word.
How does Joshua teaches this?
Right?
How does he answer this question?
Number one, we see that it
started with him being faithful.
So if you study the word of God, Joshua
ends up being around Moses consistently.
What did he do?
He started following God and he
started following God's man, which
means somebody who is following Jesus.
He started, or God, in essence, he
was trying to say, Hey, how does it.
What does it look like
to communicate with God?
So we started following God.
His past experience has
showed that commitment.
And then what did he do when the
opportunity presented itself to get in the
game and lead the charge to win a battle,
to get in part of the mission of God?
He said, yes, he didn't say to
someone else it didn't sit down
and say, no, I'm not good enough.
I'm not qualified enough.
He said, no.
And I love this one step.
I heard this from pastor Johnny Hunt.
I've listened to it and said this before
one step or one act of obedience is
better than years of studying about it.
Many of us sit here and
say, I don't like losing.
I don't like not getting involved
in the mission because I know I want
to, but many of us study about it
and we study about it and we sent it
sermons and we sit under sermons and
we listened to podcasts and we sit in.
And we never take that one step or
one act of obedience to say yes, yes.
Now there's still more steps after.
Yes.
Well, one of the coolest parts is when
we talk about being better together,
God's created the body of Christ to work
together, to build one another up to help
take the next step of what happens after.
Yes.
What did Moses do?
Joshua said yes.
And Moses said go collect men.
And he says, go battle again.
And so he went and so that's what we do.
We start taking these steps of faith.
Right.
And he took people with them.
I love that idea guys, when we say,
yes, don't forget, God's called you
to take somebody with you as well.
So where has God called you?
It could be your job, your
home, your city, who was God
called you to take with you?
I don't want to make this statement.
It's not, if it's not what who
has, you know, maybe God has
called you to know God who is God.
And where has God calling him?
So let's look at some other
people in this story, we're going
to read verses 11 through 13.
So we see while Moses held up his hand,
Israel prevailed, but whenever he put his
hand down amyloid prevailed and when Moses
hands grew heavy, they took the stone and
put it under him and he sat down on it.
And then Aaron and her supported his
hands one on one side and one on the
other side, so that his hands remained
steady until the sun went down.
And so Joshua defeated
Amalek and the army with.
So not only did God use Joshua
and the army to defeat the
enemy, he used these guys.
So let me ask this question in this story
that we're seeing here, we're reading.
Could any of the guys mentioned
one, the battle alone.
So Josh would just went by himself.
You think you could have won now if
Moses went up on the hill, as arms
would have fell, and I know this, so
you guys know that I am preaching.
Without God, none of this would have
succeeded and yes, God could have
used one of them to defeat them.
But God had a plan to use everyone God's
design and plan to fulfill his mission.
His us, he chose us his greatest
creation to be a part of that.
So let's look at Moses.
Moses was the leader of Israel, right?
He's the one that led
the people out of Egypt.
He communicated with God personally,
and then he interceded for the people.
He was faithful in his call.
We see Aaron, the brother of Moses,
God gave him to be an assistant
to help communicate because Moses
had complained that he couldn't
be able to communicate well.
And so he helped Moses
communicate to the people.
And it was interesting.
God actually makes Aaron later on
him and his, his, um, lineage or
his people behind him will actually
be the priests of the temple.
Then we see her.
And as we begin to study, there's
not much mention about her other
than this really where he was.
Of this, and it was an
important part of this.
Right?
And so we see Moses's role was
to go up on the hill, hold up
the staff that God had given him.
And when he couldn't hold a name,
more, the army would lose the battle.
But Aaron and her's role
was to support Moses.
They were there a long time
assistant till the sun went down.
And so why did Moses hold up the staff?
I want to talk about this for a second.
Why did Moses hold upset?
Number one, it was God's
number two, many believers.
You begin to look at this.
Prayer was done with hands-on.
So, what did Moses do?
He went up on the mountain.
He began to pray because he began to
inner seed for the battle that was
going on for the Lord to win the battle.
And his battle was the battle was
really won in prayer that it was
really one in prayer, but there were
so many people that were a part of
this Aaron and her supporting him.
Right.
So what happened?
Right?
Joshua won the battle.
So I want to ask this question out
of all five different people again.
We're going to talk about God a
little bit more here, but out of
Joshua, the army, Moses, Aaron, and
her, which one was more important.
You think you could rate them one to five?
They're all important.
See, too many times we look at
Moses, the leader, the one with
the staff put his hands up.
He's the most important, right?
Nope.
Now we look at he's this Joshua,
I mean, he's leading the.
He's gotta be.
Nope.
What about the whole important guess?
We're all important.
And we just said, without everybody
there's failure, obviously God can
do anything he wants, but in this
essence, if one of them doesn't
hold up an arm, does the army loose?
I want to challenge you guys in this.
As I began to read through the story,
and I know we have a group of people
in here that are not here physically
every week, part of inspiring hope
church, but I believe this is a factor
wherever you live and wherever you
serve and wherever you attend church.
But I started thinking about this
just for instance, This makes
me think about us as a church.
I couldn't help see this connection
as we are battling against the
enemy to start this church.
Cause I guarantee this, we are
battling against the enemy because we
are starting a church that is going
to glorify Christ and make him known
around our city and around the world.
That is something that means
we're starting to fight.
We're in a.
It takes us all working to,
at gathered to win the battle.
It takes us all working
together to win the battle.
Here's our strategy.
So you guys know if you're saying, Hey,
what's your strategy to win the battle?
Have you guys planned and prepared?
How did you prepare for it?
Well, yes, we did our strategy to
fulfill the mission that God has
called assist to follow Jesus.
Number one, that's what
we're going to point people.
That's where we're going to start.
It comes with a personal issue with Jesus.
We're going to challenge
each other to follow Jesus.
We're going to live in community.
That's our second thing.
Why do we live in community?
Because we're better.
We are better together.
We understand God designed the body
of Christ, not just an individual
issue with God, but the body of
Christ to grow one another up to
challenge and encourage one another.
How do we fulfill that?
Well, one of the ways we fulfill that
is we give space in this, this group.
If you wonder why we had five.
Or so in between service,
we want to build community.
Why do we have something called
inspire groups in the week?
Because we want to build community
and we want to live in community.
Why do we do life together?
Where we invite people over
for dinner or lunch, because
we want to do life together.
How are we going to defeat the enemy?
We're going to follow Jesus.
We're going to live in community and
we're going to serve those around us.
See, as we get around each
other and as we follow Jesus,
we are so driven to go surfing.
Not only in our community, through
our surf Sundays or just through our
local projects, but to serve those
around us, as we see needs in our
neighborhood, as we see needs in the
lives of those around us, we begin
to meet those needs because again,
following Jesus drives us to live in
community and drives us into serving our.
But ultimately we want to
see God's kingdom expand it.
And we believe if we
do those three things.
If we follow Jesus, we live in
community and we serve those around us.
We'll start seeing God's kingdom expanded.
We'll start seeing a lot of us get
more involved in inviting people
to church, sharing the gospel with
people, discipling people, seeing other
inspired groups start because the desire
to reach more people and ultimately
we'll see more churches planted.
It sounds like, oh gosh.
You know, that sounds systematic.
We're going to figure this out.
We've took taking the Bible out
of actually we've put the Bible
into everything we do because we
understand without the word of
God, without the power of God, our
mission and our strategy is useless.
And we'll see this in Moses story,
Moses understood that they would
have not won the battle without the
Lord's power, but they all had a role.
And so do we, we all have a role.
So I want us to work
together for just a second.
Think about.
How can you, so this is going to be
personal, even if you're not a part
of inspiring hope, how can you go and
fulfill the mission wherever you are?
How do you get ma let me ask it this way.
Cause I want to ask it the way I wrote
it, because it made me more sense.
How can you be a part of
helping people win the battle?
How can you be a part of helping win
the battle and defeat the enemy based
upon the strategy of our church?
Because you can take that anywhere you go.
How can you be a part
of winning the battle?
Pray for each other.
Good.
Let's keep going.
Build relationships.
Okay.
Keep going.
This does apply to those who aren't
part of inspiring hope you can do this.
Courage, one other.
That's great.
Love it.
I'm going to keep waiting.
We're going to keep going.
What does that follow Jesus.
Hey, you're starting
to get the drift here.
Yes.
Come on.
What else?
Being a good listener.
Okay, good.
One more.
Yeah.
Building base Larisha is
getting to know one another.
Yes, absolutely.
So I asked this question, do
you want to please God, or.
You said yes, majority of you, right?
You want to be a part of the
mission of God and you start
wondering, where do I start?
What does it look like?
Well, one way for us, and I'm
just gonna kind of walk through
this is to follow Jesus, right?
It's a simple way.
You want to be a part of
expanding God's kingdom and being
a part of the mission of God.
Follow Jesus, follow Jesus.
What should that challenge you to do?
It should challenge you as you
follow Jesus to live in communes.
Guarantee.
If you're following Jesus alone and
you do not get involved in community,
there's probably something broken in
that relationship, but it should right.
Lead you to community.
And as you're in community, it
should drive you to serve others.
And as you serve others, it should
drive you to share Jesus with others.
I want to challenge you with this.
God does not save you from something.
He saves you for something.
And specifically for
someone I'm gonna say that.
God is not only save you from
something, he saves you for something.
And for someone there is someone
I'm going to say it again.
There's someone waiting for you on
the other side of your obedience,
there's someone waiting on you
on the other side of your neck.
So many times we think we have
to have it all figured out.
I spent a year in church
trying to get my life right.
And get it all figured out.
And what I figure out, I was never going
to get there without surrendering and
taking the next step where I am today
is one next step after one next step.
And it's probably a thousand next steps
that I've taken to get to where I am.
And I'll tell you this, I am not
done because God has more for me.
I want to be a part of the mission of God.
And I'm going to continue to say yes,
And I'm going to continue to look
and say, God, what more can I do the
follow you to be a part of the mission
that you have challenged us to be as a
church and as an individual believer?
Yes, that's what we had to do is
yes, I started thinking about this.
We need to stop just going to church.
When you start being the church
guys, going to church, it's a
small part of being the church.
And so, you know, Please
come back next week.
I love you guys.
I mean, I want you to be part of
the church like coming, but I would
love to start seeing all of us be
the church, because if we'll be the
church will continue to come in here.
Like we did this morning
at our nine o'clock time.
We do a prayer time before our team
goes and gets ready for serving.
And we start hearing these
stories of gospel conversations
and dinners with families.
I want to hear more of that.
I believe God's called us to hear more.
So the question is how do we take, how do
we have the faith to take the next step?
I love how this text ends, as we see
where Moses reminds us to remember.
And if you guys have been around
inspiring hope over the last couple
of weeks, we have challenged each
other to not forget to remember.
And we've challenged ourselves what
to remember because it's powerful.
So here's what Moses says.
It says, then the Lord said to
Moses, write down on this scroll as a
reminder, and to recite it to Jo, John.
And I will completely blot out the
memory of the ambula under heaven and
Moses built an altar and named it.
The Lord is my banner and he said, indeed,
my hand is lifted up towards the Lord's
throne and the Lord will be at war with
analyte from generation to generation.
So God told Moses to write down
what happened to remind Joshua.
Here's what I do know as Joshua began
to lead the people of Israel after
Moses passed away, Joshua needed this.
The God what God had done
and what God was going to do.
We need to remember what God has told
us what God has done, what he's going
to do, because I'm telling you every
time I get the opportunity to stop and
remember what God's done in my life.
All gosh, all man, I want to be a
part of God's mission in the future.
That's what Moses is reminding us.
Don't forget to remember.
Don't forget to remember
what God has done for you.
And when we look at each person in
this text, no one was more important
than the other, their faith and
obedience is what mattered the most.
So it doesn't matter
your role in God's army.
It doesn't matter if you're the
one that is holding up your arms.
If you're leading the army, if
you're holding someone else's arms
up, the, the most important role
is the role that God's called you
to, to be a part of a filling the.
I'll challenge you with this.
If you're trying to be somebody else,
you'll only be a second rate someone
else, but if you'll be what God's called
you to be, you'll be a first rate.
You there's no one else.
That can be that.
There's no one else.
So as we conclude today, as we kind
of finish this up, I want us to think
about this as we move forward as
a church, not only inspiring hope,
but as a church, wherever you go.
I want us all to be careful to give God.
And the victories that we'll experience
and taking that next step, whatever it is.
So the question is,
what is your next step?
You won't be surprised
where I'll say it starts.
It starts with a relationship with Jesus.
If you've never given your life to Jesus.
Today is the day to give your life
to Jesus, to start fulfilling the
call that God has on your life.
That's where it starts.
Now, let me challenge you this.
If you've given your life to
Jesus, maybe today is today to
recommit to that relationship.
Maybe your life.
We'll have days then it's
weeks then it's months.
So maybe it's been years where you
haven't had that daily time with the Lord.
Today is the day to say I'm done.
I'm going to commit to start
there to start having that daily
relationship again, through the word,
through prayer with other people
as well, because accountability.
Second is maybe you've given your life
to Jesus, but you've never been baptized.
Maybe you were baptized as a baby.
And I know where we're here
more and more about that.
I'm in this area.
You're baptized as a baby before
you gave your life to Christ.
Let me encourage you.
The word says, but that's a
great dedication, but it is not a
public profession of your faith.
So baptism is part of
that public profession.
Maybe that's your next step that
you just need to say, Hey, I need to
be baptized because I've never been
baptized after I gave my life to Christ.
That's a great next step, because
you'll be amazed what God does
from that one step of obedience.
Once of obedience will give you
more confidence to take the next
step and then the next step.
And the next thing you know, God will
do great and mighty things through you.
Not because of you, but
because of your faithfulness.
And I love this scripture, God
will do exceedingly abundantly
more than you can ask her things.
Through one step or act of faith.
So maybe it's baptism for some of you.
It could just be taking the next steps
like this, go to the next steps lunch.
We moved it from this week to next week.
What's the next steps launch.
That's a place where you get to talk with
me and a couple of other people about,
Hey, what would be a great next step?
Maybe you're a lot like me.
I don't know what it is, but we
put people around us to do that.
So I want to help you take that next step.
Maybe it's that maybe it's being
a part of an inspire group.
I don't know what it is.
Maybe that's your next step.
Maybe it's being a member of
inspiring hope for some of you.
It really could just be surrendering
a call to a deeper walk in your faith.
Again, I would not doubt
if today's message.
Some of you go.
I'm good, but you may have heard me say,
Hey, how committed are you to the mission?
And you may have rated yourself a seven.
You could be an eight.
So maybe that's you today.
Maybe.
What, what is that next step?
I'm just gonna challenge you to this.
Maybe you need to start
sharing Jesus more.
Maybe it's you need to start discipling
someone because we're better together.
I'm gonna, I'm gonna
challenge you out here.
I want you to begin asking
yourself this question.
Maybe I'm going to be part
of another church plan.
Maybe God is calling you
to step up and step out.
And yes, I know I'm talking to some
of our members here and here's in
here saying, Hey, Ben, don't you want
me to be a part of this church plan?
Not more than, I want you to be faithful
to the call that God has on you.
And if that's to be a part of
another church plant, I will
celebrate because it is what God is
calling you to, to what is it guys?
This is why we come here to be
challenging our faith to go live it out.
Now, because this is the end.
All, this is the, what I would call
the prayer room, the room where
we start working together to spur
one another off to good works.
And then we go and we attempt.
And it's that challenge that I remind,
I can't remember who say to this, but
we want to expect great things from God,
but I'm challenging you, this God wants
you to attempt great things for him.
Don't say no for God.
Because a lot of times we say
no, because we don't know.
Say yes.
Be willing to risk whatever
God's calling you to do.
Here's what I promise you, staying where
you are, where you are, is not an option.
God's not called you to be saved and to
be sitting here for the rest of your life.
If that was true, God
would have saved you.
And he would have taken you at that
moment, but he says you still have
something to do to be a part of.
And it's through a personal
relationship with me.
And as I lead you.
You will go.
I don't know what your next step is.
I'd love to be a part of it.
If you have questions, if you want to give
your life to Jesus during this time of
invitation, I'm going to stay in the back.
And I stay in the back because this,
if you don't know Jesus, or you don't
know what your next step is, if you
need prayer, I want to be a part of it.
I'm here to encourage and lead
you through the word of God,
to a relationship with Jesus.
No matter if you already have
one or not to pursue that.
So, let me be a part of it.
So during this time of invitation,
what we're doing each week now is
we're trying to give you time to
consider or reflect on the message.
So here in a moment after I pray,
I want you to just take some time.
You can either how your heads and pray
you can get on your knees and pray.
You can pray with someone else,
or you can come talk to me.
That's your time to reflect and say,
God, what are you asking me to do?
Then after we get an opportunity
to reflect, we're going to end
today's service and praise or we'll
stand and worship God for allowing
us to be a part of his work.
Cause I'm so thankful for God's word.
And I'm so thankful for our relationship
with Jesus and that challenge you today.
Don't miss the opportunity.
Say yes to Jesus.
Let's pray, Lord Jesus.
We love you Lord.
And we know that your word is
timeless and Lord, I am so thankful.
For the example of Joshua and the
army and Moses and Aaron and her Lord.
I always think of these stories as they
could have been something different.
If they wouldn't have the faith
to say yes, Lord, you chose to use
these men after their obedience.
God, I pray that your word convicts
us and reminds us that you want to
do exceedingly abundantly more in
our lives if we'll just surrender.
So Lord, I pray if there's someone
in this room that doesn't know you
personally, that doesn't have a personal
issue with you, Lord, they don't leave
today without making that secure Lord.
I pray that they come back and they
talk with me or they talk with one of
our other members here in our church.
Lord, they begin to take that.
The Lord, I even want to step further.
I believe God, you are speaking
to every person in this room.
Lord, every person is designed to be
here today because you brought them
here to hear the message from you.
Lord, I pray that they are challenged to
say yes to their next step of faith and
may you get glory and may they experience
your presence along the journey?
And so Lord, we just pray
this in your heavenly name.
Mm,